.. -*- mode: rst -*-
.. This text is in reStucturedText format, so it may look a bit odd.
.. See http://docutils.sourceforge.net/rst.html for details.

=====================
Magick::Montage Class
=====================

A montage is a single image which is composed of thumbnail images
composed in a uniform grid. The size of the montage image is
determined by the size of the individual thumbnails and the number of
rows and columns in the grid.

The following illustration shows a montage consisting of three columns
and two rows of thumbnails rendered on a gray background:

.. image:: montage-sample-framed.jpg
   :width: 378px
   :height: 238px
   :scale: 100%
   :align: center
   :alt: Figure showing framed montage

Montages may be either "plain" (undecorated thumbnails) or "framed"
(decorated thumbnails). In order to more easily understand the options
supplied to MontageImages(), montage options are supplied by two
different classes: Magick::Montage and Magick::MontageFramed.

Plain Montages
--------------

Magick::Montage is the base class to provide montage options and
provides methods to set all options required to render simple
(unframed) montages. See Magick::MontageFramedif you would like to
create a framed montage.

Unframed thumbnails consist of four components: the thumbnail image,
the thumbnail border, an optional thumbnail shadow, and an optional
thumbnail label area.

.. image:: thumbnail-anatomy-plain.jpg
   :width: 309px
   :height: 327px
   :scale: 100%
   :align: center
   :alt: Figure showing plain montage

The following is the definition of the Magick::Montage class::

  class Montage
  {
  public:
    Montage( void );
    virtual ~Montage( void );

    // Specifies the background color that thumbnails are imaged upon.
    void              backgroundColor ( const Color &backgroundColor_ );
    Color             backgroundColor ( void ) const;

    // Specifies the image composition algorithm for thumbnails. This
    // controls the algorithm by which the thumbnail image is placed
    // on the background. Use of OverCompositeOp is recommended for
    // use with images that have transparency. This option may have
    // negative side-effects for images without transparency.
    void              compose ( CompositeOperator compose_ );
    CompositeOperator compose ( void ) const;

    // Specifies the image filename to be used for the generated
    // montage images. To handle the case were multiple montage images
    // are generated, a printf-style format may be embedded within the
    // filename. For example, a filename specification of
    // image%02d.miff names the montage images as image00.miff,
    // image01.miff, etc.
    void              fileName( const std::string &fileName_ );
    std::string       fileName( void ) const;

    // Specifies the fill color to use for the label text.
    void              fillColor ( const Color &fill_ );
    Color             fillColor ( void ) const;

    // Specifies the thumbnail label font.
    void              font ( const std::string &font_ );
    std::string       font ( void ) const;

    // Specifies the size of the generated thumbnail.
    void              geometry ( const Geometry &geometry_ );
    Geometry          geometry ( void ) const;

    // Specifies the thumbnail positioning within the specified
    // geometry area. If the thumbnail is smaller in any dimension
    // than the geometry, then it is placed according to this
    // specification
    void              gravity ( GravityType gravity_ );
    GravityType       gravity ( void ) const;
    
    // Specifies the format used for the image label. Special format
    // characters may be embedded in the format string to include
    // information about the image.
    void              label( const std::string &label_ );
    std::string       label( void ) const;

    // Specifies the pen color to use for the label text (same as fill).
    void              penColor ( const Color &pen_ );
    Color             penColor ( void ) const;

    // Specifies the thumbnail label font size.
    void              pointSize ( unsigned int pointSize_ );
    unsigned int      pointSize ( void ) const;

    // Enable/disable drop-shadow on thumbnails.
    void              shadow ( bool shadow_ );
    bool              shadow ( void ) const;

    // Specifies the stroke color to use for the label text .
    void              strokeColor ( const Color &stroke_ );
    Color             strokeColor ( void ) const;

    // Specifies a texture image to use as montage background. The
    // built-in textures "granite:" and "plasma:" are available. A
    // texture is the same as a background image.
    void              texture ( const std::string &texture_ );
    std::string       texture ( void ) const;

    // Specifies the maximum number of montage columns and rows in the
    // montage. The montage is built by filling out all cells in a row
    // before advancing to the next row. Once the montage has reached
    // the maximum number of columns and rows, a new montage image is
    // started.
    void              tile ( const Geometry &tile_ );
    Geometry          tile ( void ) const;

    // Specifies the montage title
    void              title ( const std::string &title_ );
    std::string       title ( void ) const;
    
    // Specifies a montage color to set transparent. This option can
    // be set the same as the background color in order for the
    // thumbnails to appear without a background when rendered on an
    // HTML page. For best effect, ensure that the transparent color
    // selected does not occur in the rendered thumbnail colors.
    void              transparentColor ( const Color &transparentColor_ );
    Color             transparentColor ( void ) const;

  };

Framed Montages
---------------

Magick::MontageFramed provides the means to specify montage options
when it is desired to have decorative frames around the image
thumbnails. MontageFramed inherits from Montage and therefore provides
all the methods of Montage as well as those shown in the table
"MontageFramed Methods".

Framed thumbnails consist of four components: the thumbnail image, the
thumbnail frame, the thumbnail border, an optional thumbnail shadow,
and an optional thumbnail label area.

.. image:: thumbnail-anatomy-framed.jpg
   :width: 350px
   :height: 345px
   :scale: 100%
   :align: center
   :alt: Figure showing anatomy of a framed montage

The following is the definition of the Magick::MontageFramed class::

  class MontageFramed : public Montage
  {
  public:
    MontageFramed ( void );
    /* virtual */ ~MontageFramed ( void );

    // Specifies the background color within the thumbnail frame.
    void           borderColor ( const Color &borderColor_ );
    Color          borderColor ( void ) const;

    // Specifies the border (in pixels) to place between a thumbnail
    // and its surrounding frame. This option only takes effect if
    // thumbnail frames are enabled (via frameGeometry) and the
    // thumbnail geometry specification doesn't also specify the
    // thumbnail border width.
    void           borderWidth ( unsigned int borderWidth_ );
    unsigned int   borderWidth ( void ) const;

    // Specifies the geometry specification for frame to place around
    // thumbnail. If this parameter is not specified, then the montage
    // is unframed.
    void           frameGeometry ( const Geometry &frame_ );
    Geometry       frameGeometry ( void ) const;

    // Specifies the thumbnail frame color.
    void           matteColor ( const Color &matteColor_ );
    Color          matteColor ( void ) const;

  };

.. |copy|   unicode:: U+000A9 .. COPYRIGHT SIGN

Copyright |copy| Bob Friesenhahn 1999 - 2016

